As an async, you should keep the origin of your abilities in mind: Watts-MacLeod strain infection. You may or may not be aware of this source, but you undoubtedly know that you underwent some sort of transformation and have talents that no one else does. If unaware of the infection, you have likely learned to keep your abilities secret lest you be ridiculed, attacked, or whisked away to some secret testing program. Learning the truth about your nature could even be the starting point of a campaign and/or your introduction to Firewall. If you know the truth, however, you must live with the fact that you are the victim of a nanoplague likely spread by the TITANs that may or may not lead to complications, side effects, or other unexpected revelations in your future.

You should make an effort to explore the nature of your infection and how your character perceives it. Asyncs are profoundly changed people. The invasive and alien aspect of your abilities should not be lost on you. For example, you might conceive of your psi talents as a sort of parasitic entity, living off your sleights, or you might feel that using these powers puts you in touch with some sort of fundamental substrate of the universe that is weird and terrifying. Alternatively, you could feel as if your personality was melded with something different, something that doesn’t belong. Each async is likely to view their situation differently, and none of them pleasantly.

One key aspect to roleplaying an async is to treat the infection as a distinct, if mostly dormant or removed, entity. It is a constant presence below your async’s consciousness. It may have its own unique aspirations, but these should remain mysterious. While many of the behavioral compulsions and motivational urges imply a level of sociopathy or destructiveness, think of it more as lacking a moral compass. The exovirus has none of the reference points for morality that transhumanity has. It is not evil so much as indifferent, callous, and alien.